hafsoh is known for her rudeness especially to me so i'm not surprised.
"save me the talks please and go straight to the point. i'm still busy"
"whatever! your mum had an accident and she is in the hospital. i think they sounded serious when they called me and they've also been worried for not getting to you..."
i interrupt, "and you are just telling me that?"
"i think i've told the whole world just now how i've been calling but you weren't picking. stop picking a fight and get your ass down to the hospital!" she ends the call.
i stand dumfounded, did she just mention my ass? she is now becoming more rude than ever! i was seven when she was born, i practically raised her...
i cast that aside as i remember she just told me my mum had an accident so i had to travel down to her hometown today. i arrange the papers and files on my table, pick up my car key and bag and head out to the g.m's office.
"i'm sorry sir, i won't be able to see today's work till it ends. i just received a call now that my mum had an accident and i have to travel home."
he relaxes his back on his chair, interlocking his fingers as he talks, "well! you have to write an official letter for that and we will have to..."
i cut in to mimick him, "...send it to the ceo then get an approval before you go!" he becomes silent, in the middle of confusion and surprise then i continue, "either you approve it or not sir, i'm going home today and right now. good day sir!"
i walk out of him and slam the door behind. i have never understood his problem about me neither has he ever declared one. he has always repeated the same sentences everytime i go to him for permission to leave earlier. all i ever smell is that he is all out to take every of his chances to destroy me. may be he has seen someone to replace me so he wants to send me packing but my god is greater than him. may he never succeed in'shaa'allah!
on the highway, i insert my bluetooth air phone into my left ear and dial my neighbour's number. i explain to her my predicament and ask her to take my children to their dad at home after ishai prayers which she agrees. about to dial my husband's number, hafsoh's call comes in again and i pick,
"have you gotten there?"
"i don't have an helicopter, you remember?"
i hear her huffing, "just make sure you let me know the situation when you get there because those kids’ phone numbers are no more going"
"i had thought you don't care about whatever happens to her."
"she is my mother! the only woman who has my jannah under her feet! so i have to... even though... just call me"
"don't worry, my ass will call you!"
she smirks, "so you held that in? i'm sorry sweet sister. i was just trying to give you in a harder way because i was pissed. so sorry my sweet azeeeeezah"
concentrating more on the road, i smile. she is the only one who knows how to touch my soft spot where even my husband never knows. i quickly think of a way of revenging as she asks after my kids and husband.
*follow for episode 5*
keep forwarding  this important reminder of the day:
*no phones in kitchen please*
do you make calls or receive calls in your kitchen? my name is dr. ademola. just 3 days ago my husband who also is a doctor shared the sad incidents of 6 individuals who were brought into the casualty department for burns injury which they sustained while making or receiving phone calls in the kitchen with the gas burner on. even microwave oven or induction stoves could be dangerous. some of them cook with the phone pressed against their ears! please stop making or receiving calls in the kitchen. it is as dangerous as making or receiving calls in a petrol station. " please don't forget to notify your loved ones". if the call is very urgent then move away from the gas
 by 10-12 feet distance and then take the call. remember that your safety is your family's safety as well.
if this information is useful to you. please don't lock it up in your phone. spread the good news . thanks
tanks so much dear for d info
u welcome luv...miss nala
missing you too
siloneka nk
hey dear, is the gambia changing currency?
*i don't know what's happening with  africell  and qcel i have been trying to send d25 to each member of this group in appreciation of all the jokes and meaningful discussions, nice pictures, inspirational messages and even for your images and videos but it doesn't go through. can somebody try to send to me d25 right now to check whether the problem is from my phone?*
ok wait fo me i’ll send it to u right away
😂😂😂😂🤣🤣🤣ohk we will try an see
if it's d new currency am hearing abt, u using pounds n shillings as if we are still colonised.
we can maintain our dalasi
i would love it this way👍🏼👍🏼👍🏼
plz you try again n see😀
belai for sure
*my home! my career!*
*season 2 - episode 4*
hafsoh is known for her rudeness especially to me so i'm not surprised.
"save me the talks please and go straight to the point. i'm still busy"
"whatever! your mum had an accident and she is in the hospital. i think they sounded serious when they called me and they've also been worried for not getting to you..."
i interrupt, "and you are just telling me that?"
"i think i've told the whole world just now how i've been calling but you weren't picking. stop picking a fight and get your ass down to the hospital!" she ends the call.
i stand dumfounded, did she just mention my ass? she is now becoming more rude than ever! i was seven when she was born, i practically raised her...
i cast that aside as i remember she just told me my mum had an accident so i had to travel down to her hometown today. i arrange the papers and files on my table, pick up my car key and bag and head out to the g.m's office.
"i'm sorry sir, i won't be able to see today's work till it ends. i just received a call now that my mum had an accident and i have to travel home."
he relaxes his back on his chair, interlocking his fingers as he talks, "well! you have to write an official letter for that and we will have to..."
i cut in to mimick him, "...send it to the ceo then get an approval before you go!" he becomes silent, in the middle of confusion and surprise then i continue, "either you approve it or not sir, i'm going home today and right now. good day sir!"
i walk out of him and slam the door behind. i have never understood his problem about me neither has he ever declared one. he has always repeated the same sentences everytime i go to him for permission to leave earlier. all i ever smell is that he is all out to take every of his chances to destroy me. may be he has seen someone to replace me so he wants to send me packing but my god is greater than him. may he never succeed in'shaa'allah!
on the highway, i insert my bluetooth air phone into my left ear and dial my neighbour's number. i explain to her my predicament and ask her to take my children to their dad at home after ishai prayers which she agrees. about to dial my husband's number, hafsoh's call comes in again and i pick,
"have you gotten there?"
"i don't have an helicopter, you remember?"
i hear her huffing, "just make sure you let me know the situation when you get there because those kids’ phone numbers are no more going"
"i had thought you don't care about whatever happens to her."
"she is my mother! the only woman who has my jannah under her feet! so i have to... even though... just call me"
"don't worry, my ass will call you!"
she smirks, "so you held that in? i'm sorry sweet sister. i was just trying to give you in a harder way because i was pissed. so sorry my sweet azeeeeezah"
concentrating more on the road, i smile. she is the only one who knows how to touch my soft spot where even my husband never knows. i quickly think of a way of revenging as she asks after my kids and husband.
*follow for episode 5*
*my home! my career!*
*season 2 - episode 5*
"so, hafsoh, when should we be expecting them?" i ask with a more serious tone.
"how many of them? you've started again! i think i would have to change my sim once more" she ends the call before i could respond.
on the normal circumstance, she would only warn me to stop asking and not aggravated as she has sounded by ending the call abruptly.
worried, i try to redial her number as i'm turning to the left of the road without looking up. hearing the horn of a car in front of me, i look up and see a car facing mine and almost closing in on my lane. i become startled and suddenly feel my leg steps on the break. i jerk forward, almost hitting my forehead on the steering wheel. i hear the man in the car yelling some curses at me but i don't care. alhamdulillah! i'm still alive!
recovering from shock i remain on the spot for some minutes. since it isn't a busy road, the cars are just passing by mine. regaining myself, i drive to the side of the road and park. my eyes glaring at my phone on the car's floor with its screen broken. i pick it up and try to switch it on, it isn't responding.
"i haven't called habeeby, he wouldn't know i won't be home tonight." i murmur under my stressed breath.
i think of driving to his workshop but it is far and i might not make it to mummy on time so i decide to head back home and drop him a note. i pull into the road and drive home.
i park in front of the gate and hurry inside after teslim. i write a note explaining to him in details the situation, where the kids are and why i haven't been able to call him. i place the note on the dinning table and put my pen on it so i hurry out.
reaching out to my car, i hear nuzayba calling me. surprised to see her as she runs to me - they ought to be at madrasah but why are they home by this time?
"my beautiful nuzayba!" i kiss her on the cheek. "where is your brother? why didn't you stay for madrasah at school?"
"our udhtazah put to bed so there isn't madrasah today... mummy, khalid is crying!"
my eyes widened, "why is he crying?"
"bilal's mom beat him... he brought home another person's tea flask"
rage erupts in me! i close my eyes for some seconds to subsidize it and i open my eyes. what hurts me most in life is to see my kids getting hurt especially unjustly. it might be a mistake on his part or on the other kid's part! i seldom beat my children, how can anyone beat them for me anyhow?!
i hold nuzayba's hand and walk into my neighbour's house after i have knocked and said teslim. bilal's mum answers from the kitchen. i meet my son sitting on the floor, head on his folded arms which are placed on his knees, crying aloud. i pull him on his feet and hug him,
crying, he complains "mummy, ummu bilal beats..."
bilal's mom enters and cut into his sentence, facing him "did i beat you for no reason? you stole your class mate's water flask and you expected to go scot-free free. if you have been doing that before without being questioned and disciplined, you can't try that with me... armed robbers usually begins like that!" she returns to the kitchen...
*follow for episode 6*
*my home! my career!*
*season 2 - episode 6*
my stomach boils in anger as she spouts every of her derisive words. she doesn't even care of my presence! i keep my calm and transfer every aggression in me to myself. i had caused this!... no, their father has caused it! if he hasn't withdrawn his support, i wouldn't have put my children in her care. tears soak my eyes but i hold them back - they can't fall in front of this barking dog.
i draw my son closer in more passionate embrace and smile to ummu bilal who just enters the sitting room again. khalid weeps harder and she watches me as i pat him in the back.
"is that what you will do when i just told you he stole something from another kid? their lunch boxes are in the kitchen go and check it if you don't want to believe me!" she hurls at me.
nuzayba holds my dress, frightened. they aren't used to such an intimidating voice. i seldom shout at them and whenever i do, they take it serious like an erupting volcano.
she storms up from where she sits into her kitchen and returns with khalid's lunch box.
"see for yourself, here is his own water flask and here is the one he stole!" she says, throwing the flask at me which i catch.
taking a good look at the flask, it is new and designed with beautiful blue and white colour. i look at khalid's flask, it is old enough to throw away. now i catch a glimpse to understanding why - i haven't had the time to buy them new things. even all their clothes and underwears are more than a year old.
i sigh silently, "thank you ummu bilal and i'm sorry for causing you the trouble... i just have my ways of dealing with my children and beating them is always my last resort. it has been a while now that they've been staying with you briefly after school and i don't think you've ever seen him done that or any of such before..."
she intrudes as she takes a seat, "it does start one day and it is better to curb them sooner than later"
"i'm not saying i don't curb them! children also have brain, they can reason so they can be talked to instead of exercising violence on them. they can listen to words more than they listen to cane. cane just creates fear in them while words would create everlasting understanding."
"see, i don't have time for that..."
interrupted by her son bilal who spills water from the cup he is holding on the floor. she bounces at the boy in a stride and smacks him severely on the buttocks while saying,
"i've told you... several times... not to drink water while standing... sit and drink... stop carrying water around..."
i shake my head in pity - she just succeeded creating fear in the boy. in only her presence would the boy fear to drink while standing and would do as he pleases in her absence simply because he doesn't understand why he should sit while drinking. even though drinking while standing is still permitted as the prophet also did that too, he has instructed us to sit while drinking - which is better. she should just let him know that sitting is better and he would be rewarded. then he won't be reminded next time before he sits to drink.
now i know where khalid has been learning his new violent behaviour. i should better draw out a better plan for my kids, spending much of their time here might damage their adab (etiquette).
*follow for season 7*
*my home! my career!*
*season 2 - episode 7*
i excuse myself and my kids to the outside of the house where i sit on the pavement and have khalid standing before me while nuzayba sits beside me
"you know the reason why that ummu beat you?" i calmly ask
"she said i stole the bottle but i didn't steal it. it belongs to my friend in the class, i just took it to show you that i want to buy the same flask as that. i want to return it to him tomorrow after i have shown you"
i heave a sigh, "did you ask your friend if you could take it before you did?"
"no i didn't tell him. mommy but we are friends"
"that is exactly where you had it wrong. if you take anything without seeking the owner's permission, you are stealing it. and such person that steals is called a thief..." he hangs his head down, now realizing what he has done wrong. "no matter how close anyone is to you, you have to ask their permission before taking even their needle. i'm your mother and nuzayba is your sister, if you take any of our belongings without seeking our permission and get approval that you should take it, you have stolen. you must know that stealing is a sin that could get your hand cut and take you to hell fire. do you want to get your hand cut and dwell in the hell fire? because you would make the person you stole from cry or don't you know your friend would have been searching for his new flask now and he would have been crying not knowing you took it. you sin whenever you make someone cry and you earn reward whenever you make anyone laugh. and you should learn to be contented with whatever you possess, if you are in need of anything, your father and i are always here for you..." he sobs louder, uttering 'astagfirullah' continuously. i smile because i'm happy my words are registering into him. "now, we have to stop your friend from crying first."
i search my body for my phone and i remember it has damaged. i return inside and borrow ummu bilal's phone to call their teacher; bilal and khalid are in the same class. i explain everything to the teacher and beg her to call his friend's parent and inform them their son's flask is safe and will be returned tomorrow in'shaa'allah. i go back to my kids waiting outside and meet khalid still sobbing like he was caned while nuzayba who can't stand her brother crying pats him on the back.
i draw him closer, "your friend is no more crying alhamdulillah. so don't ever do that again. when you get to school tomorrow make sure you apologize by telling him you are sorry. promise me you will do that"
"i will"
"my son, become the best by having the best of characters!"
i rub his tears off with a tip of my veil and urge him to stop crying.
"in'shaa'allah when i return from ummy. i will buy you a more beautiful and better tea flask and food flask..."
"and me too ummy, you know i don't steal anyone's belonging" nuzayba interrupts.
"that's my good girl! your brother only made a mistake, i'm buying for both of you... and new school bags in'shaa'allah"
khalid now smiles and crosses his hands around my neck, "i'm sorry ummy!"
i nod.
releasing his hands, he asks "are you travelling to grandma's town?"
i nod, "grandma is sick so i have to check on her"
i call on ummu bilal and plead to her to help me take the kids to their dad at home after ishai prayers as i've said to her on the phone earlier. nuzayba whines to follow me which i systematically decline by threatening not to buy her bag if she follows me.
*follow for episode 8*
*my home! my career!*
*season 2 - episode 8*
i take a quick glimpse at my wrist watch; it is 6:20pm. the night fall would meet me on the road and i have a phobia for night driving. i decide to take a public transport instead so i drive my car into our garage. i close the gate and get on my way.
arriving at the town, i head straight to the hospital. the doctor tells me my mum is still unconscious from the shock she encountered during the accident but apart from her broken leg which has been taken care of, there is nothing more to be afraid of.
none of my siblings has returned from home so i keep waiting at the hospital. i glare at the clock, the time is past ten. my mum hasn't woken up and i haven't gotten any phone by chance to call my husband.
inclining my back on the chair's backrest, i murmur "i just hope he sees my note"
descending down the streaming swamped street from the masjid, my heart and mind filled with ambivalence as i keep dialing her number repeatedly, but only getting the usual response of the network woman - "the number you're calling is currently not reachable, please try again later"
although it isn't odd, why is her car parked in the garage when she hasn't returned? or has she returned and left the house with the children for somewhere again without my permission?
a mischievous smile appears at corner of my face, i hope she hasn't done that. however, till i hear from her when i get home...
in my pocket, my phone viberates. i pull it out and receive the call.
"akhy mikhail, assalaamu'alykum" he greets
"wahlykum salam warahmatullah" i respond
he asks me about some developed faults in his car and i give him some recommendable solution although not accurate until i see the car and carryout some physical test on it. he appreciates my response and thanks me. i'm about to hang up after exchanging teslim when he abruptly asks me to wait,
"i've been hearing the sounds of some moving vehicles there, why are you still on the road by this time?"
"nothing, i'm just returning from the masjid."
"this is past nine... has your wife returned from work?" he enquires
"she must have returned. hope no problem?" i ask even though i've known his devious insinuation.
"there is, akhy. i'm very sure you are uncertain in your mind whether she would have returned or not. perhaps she has returned and has started cooking for you and the kids, you will still be having your dinner lately..." taciturnly, i listen to his usual sermon, "like i've always said, you have to be a man akhy, i mean a man who have full control over his household. stop being a woman's wrapper and take the full control. women are like kids, too much kindness to them and you become impertinent. even the kindness the prophet s.a.w has mentioned are feeding, clothing and housing them which i am confidently certain that you are doing and nothing more. and if you are acting upon the prophet's sunnah to his wives, you should remember his wives weren't working and did not leave their husband at home uncared for, nevertheless he was a prophet while you weren't and you can't compare today's women to those pious sahabiyyats who, money, fashion and material comfort were never in their plans. you are giving your woman too much privilege - to work and do as she likes - and the more you do that, the more you become irrelevant to her. then you loose your authority as a man... you know i almost laughed my head off last time i visited your house when your little girl...ehm...ehm..." he hums as he tries to remember my daughter's name.
then i remind him, "nuzayba"
"yes nuzayba! she just came in the middle of our discourse saying 'abby, i'm through in the toilet. come and wash my bum bum for me'. without any rethink you just stood up and followed the girl..." he emits a snicker and continues, "and your little boy khalid, who dumped your food after eating a spoon and said to you 'my daddy, you couldn't cook the noddles like my mummy, it is too soggy. please can i have cornflakes instead?'... ah...ah...ah...!" he now bursts into an enormous scornful laughter.
*follow for episode 9*
thank you it's really interesting.. can't waiting to see episode 9 😂
u welcom
thanks so much abu
u welcom
hahaha lol
beautification we call it
*my home! my career!*
*season 2 - episode 9*
i should have cut him off like i used to do but my house is still quite a distance away so i chose to use his company at least to wander off my conception.
how can a man of a good perception misconstrued kindness, limiting it to those three essential obligations? it is my duty to feed, clothe and house her as well as it is my duty to be kind to her. allah said it and the prophet s.a.w emphasized on it. women are women, either the past or present! people are just full of mysterious misconceptions, i don't know! if i were a man of little knowledge about islam, i would have fallen for his mumbo-jumbo.
he resumes, "akhy, you should have seen how you were doing that day, like a... what can i call it o?... a girly-man or woman-man" he laughs again, "i'm almost out of breath akhy, till we see. assalaamu'alykum"
i hang up before he does. his jeering penetrates me but has no result in my sentiment. but i agree that i should be the man in full control.
right from our bachelor days i've known him, akhy abdulwaheed has been a man of action. i had admired and respected him more when i went to his home. he has two wives and one word from him, they have submitted to whatever he wishes without questioning. i had commended him that day and asked him to tell me his secret while i explained my plight to him, hoping to learn something better but since then i've been receiving his unending casual sermon...
the thought of my wife slips in again - i have never questioned her for going out without my permission but that would take effect from now on in'shaa'allah. even the angels curse every woman who goes out of her home without her husband's permission as said by the prophet s.a.w. so i'm literally saving her from being cursed...
as i open the gate into our compound, nuzayba sprints towards me and i hoist her up in embrace. she crosses her hands around my neck and holds her legs firmly around my back so i won't drop her.
she places her head on my chest with comfort and says as i walk towards bungalow "abby, we've been waiting for you. we thought you have traveled too so we were scared"
perplexed, i stop moving further and reply "no i didn't, i went to the masjid. and who has traveled?
"ummy! she said grandma is sick and she had to go there. and she refused to take me"
a wrathful feeling grows from my stomach but i have to hide it from the kids. they are still small to comprehend whatever ill feelings that go on between adults, any exposure can traumatize them or have perpetual effect in their lives.
so that explains why i had met her car in the garage but where have the kids been?
i ask nuzayba where they've been and she explains how they've been staying with ummu bilal sometimes after school whenever their mum returned late and what khalid has done and how he was beaten by the woman today and what their mum told them about stealing people's belongings.
i close my eyes briefly, "if she hasn't placed the love for her work over us, she might have been one of the best women in the world" i mutter as we walk into the house, then i say teslim.
"what did you say my daddy?" she enquires.
"nothing... where is khalid?" i ask as i bend and let her down